---
title: Audit Trail
description: This article provides information about how to activate and deactivate audit trails. 
ms.custom: UpdateFrequency2, engagement-fy23
ms.service: system-center
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.subservice: orchestrator
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: how-to
ms.assetid: b93dbbb6-3c0d-4256-8140-c47b67a50a4a
author: Jeronika-MS
ms.author: v-gajeronika
ms.date: 11/01/2024
---
# Audit Trail

The *Audit Trail* is a collection of text log files that contain information about the interaction of a runbook with external tools and systems. By using the Audit Trail, you can report on configuration and change compliance of processes and identify changes made to a non-Microsoft system for audit purposes or to remediate a change that causes service interruption.  

Depending on how many runbooks you invoke and how many activities those runbooks contain, the Audit Trail can consume a large amount of disk space on the computer that runs the management server and runbook server. If you enable auditing, you should implement an archiving procedure to move the files generated by the Audit Trail to another computer regularly.  

## Activate or Deactivate the Audit Trail

By default, the Audit Trail isn't activated when you install Orchestrator. You can use the following procedure to activate or deactivate it:

1.  Open a command prompt with administrative credentials.  

::: moniker range="<=sc-orch-2019"
2.  Navigate to `C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft System Center\Orchestrator\Management Server`.  
::: moniker-end

::: moniker range=">=sc-orch-2022"
2.  Navigate to `C:\Program Files\Microsoft System Center\Orchestrator\Management Server`.  
::: moniker-end

3.  To activate the Audit Trail, enter **atlc \/enable**.

4.  To deactivate the Audit Trail, enter **atlc \/disable**.  

## Audit Trail Files

Audit Trail files are stored in comma-separated value file (.csv) format. The following table shows the details:

**Log Type:**  Runbook Publisher  

**File Name:** *Computer Name*\_ RunbookPublisher\_*Timestamp*.csv  

**Contents:**  

-   Date and time that the runbook was started  

-   User name and domain that started the runbook  

-   Name of the computer where the runbook ran  

|Computer|Location|  
|------------|------------|  
|Management Server|`C:\ProgramData\Microsoft System Center 2012\Orchestrator\Audit\ManagementService`|  
|Runbook Server|`C:\ProgramData\Microsoft System Center 2012 \Orchestrator\Audit\RunbookService`|  

**Log Type:**  Activity Runtime Information  

**File Name:** *Computer Name*\_ ObjectRuntimeInfo\_*Timestamp*.csv  

**Contents:**  

-   Date and time that activity ran  

-   Name of runbook server that ran the activity  

-   ID of the job process that ran the activity  

-   Object XML code that activity received as input data  

|Computer|Location|  
|------------|------------|  
|Runbook Server|`C:\ProgramData\Microsoft System Center 2012 \Orchestrator\Audit\PolicyModule`|  

When a file reaches 200 megabytes (MB) in size, a new file is created. The time stamp is included in the file name to ensure that each file name is unique. Passwords and other encrypted text fields are represented by five asterisks \(\*\*\*\*\*\) in the Audit Trail files.  

> [!NOTE]  
> The ProgramData folder holding the audit files is often a hidden system folder.  

## Next steps

[Orchestrator Logs](~/orchestrator/orchestrator-logs.md)  
