---
title: How to View All Rules and Monitors Running on an Agent-Managed Computer_1
ms.custom: na
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: afc63d8a-0c45-4597-b25e-1754baaae181
---
# How to View All Rules and Monitors Running on an Agent-Managed Computer_1
Administrators for [!INCLUDE[om12long](../Token/om12long_md.md)] sometimes want to know which rules and monitors are running on a computer. This is simple to do with the **Show Running Rules and Monitors for this Health Service** task.

### To view all rules and monitors running on a computer

1.  Open the Operations console and click **Monitoring**.

2.  For an agent\-managed computer, navigate to the Operations Manager\\Agent Details\\Agent Health State view.  For a management server, navigate to Operations Manager\\Management Server\\Management Servers State view.

3.  Click the agent you want to see rules and monitors for.

4.  In the **Tasks** pane, select the task **Show Running Rules and Monitors for this Health Service**.

5.  The **Run Task – Show Running Rules and Monitors for this Health Service** dialog box appears. Click **Run**.

6.  The Task Status dialog box appears. When the task is completed, you can click **Copy Text** or **Copy HTML** and paste the task output in the appropriate tool for further review.

## See Also
[How Heartbeats Work in Operations Manager](../Topic/How-Heartbeats-Work-in-Operations-Manager.md)
[Resolving Heartbeat Alerts](../Topic/Resolving-Heartbeat-Alerts.md)
[Viewing Active Alerts](../Topic/Viewing-Active-Alerts.md)
[Viewing Alert Details](../Topic/Viewing-Alert-Details.md)
[Examining Properties of Alerts, Rules, and Monitors](../Topic/Examining-Properties-of-Alerts,-Rules,-and-Monitors.md)
[Impact of Closing an Alert](../Topic/Impact-of-Closing-an-Alert.md)
[How to Close an Alert Generated by a Monitor](../Topic/How-to-Close-an-Alert-Generated-by-a-Monitor.md)
[How to Reset Health](../Topic/How-to-Reset-Health.md)
[Identifying the Computer Experiencing a Problem](../Topic/Identifying-the-Computer-Experiencing-a-Problem.md)
[Using Health Explorer to Investigate Problems](../Topic/Using-Health-Explorer-to-Investigate-Problems.md)
[Using Event View to Investigate Problems](../Topic/Using-Event-View-to-Investigate-Problems.md)
[Investigating Alert Storms](../Topic/Investigating-Alert-Storms.md)
[How an Alert is Produced](../Topic/How-an-Alert-is-Produced.md)
[How to Set Alert Resolution States](../Topic/How-to-Set-Alert-Resolution-States.md)
[How to Configure Automatic Alert Resolution](../Topic/How-to-Configure-Automatic-Alert-Resolution.md)
[Diagnostic and Recovery Tasks](../Topic/Diagnostic-and-Recovery-Tasks.md)
[Viewing and Investigating Alerts for .NET Applications &#40;Server-side Perspective&#41;](../Topic/Viewing-and-Investigating-Alerts-for-.NET-Applications--Server-side-Perspective-.md)

