---
title: How to Browse a Class in the Authoring Tool
ms.custom: na
ms.prod: system-center-2012
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - service-manager
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 91a71b92-cc22-4d2b-818e-3eedfcabad50


















---
# How to Browse a Class in the Authoring Tool
You can use the **Class Browser**pane in the System Center 2016 - Service Manager Authoring Tool to browse classes and their properties. While you are browsing classes, you can add a control to a form by dragging properties from the **Class Browser** pane to a form that is being authored in the authoring pane.  
  
 The **Class Browser** pane can display classes from any management pack that is in the Library folder and from any management pack that has been opened in the Authoring Tool. When you select a class, the **Class Browser** pane displays the properties that are specifically defined for that class and the internal properties that are generated by the system. By default, the Library folder is in the following location: C:\\Program Files \(x86\)\\Microsoft System Center\\Service Manager 2012 Authoring\\Library.  
  
 When you select a management pack in the **Class Browser** pane, all the classes from the selected management pack are displayed, and you can expand the class for which you want to view properties. When you select **All Management Packs**, all the classes from all the management packs in the Library folder are displayed. Whenever you change the selection of the management pack, you must refresh the **Class Browser** pane.  
  
### To browse a class  
  
1.  If the **Class Browser** pane is not visible in the Authoring Tool, click **View**, and then click **Class Browser**.  
  
2.  In the **Class Browser** pane, in the management pack list, select the management pack that contains the class that you want to browse. For example, select the **System Library** management pack.  
  
3.  Locate the class that you want to view, such as the **Computer** class, and then do the following:  
  
    -   To view the details of the class, such as **Description** and **Internal Name**, right\-click the class, and then click **Details**.  
  
    -   To view the list of class properties, such as **Display Name** and **Asset Status**, expand the class in the **Class Browser** pane. To further view details of a property, right\-click the property, and then click **Details**.  
  
    -   To open the management pack that contains the definition of the class, right\-click the class, and then click **View**.  
  
## See Also  
 [Classes: Customizing and Authoring](../Topic/Classes:%20Customizing%20and%20Authoring.md)
