---
title: Use Health Explorer in Operations Manager
description: This article describes how to use the Operations Manager Health Explorer to view health and state changes for monitored objects.
author: Jeronika-MS
ms.author: v-gajeronika
ms.reviewer: v-gajeronika
ms.date: 02/04/2026
ms.custom: UpdateFrequency2, engagement-fy24
ms.service: system-center
ms.subservice: operations-manager
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.assetid: 0e4aec83-1bbf-4cbb-86ec-0bf9e3710dc5
---

# Use Health Explorer in Operations Manager

In System Center Operations Manager, use the Health Explorer tool to identify and diagnose failures with monitored objects. Health Explorer gives you the ability to view and then take action on alerts, state changes, and other significant problems generated by monitoring objects on your network.  

Start Health Explorer from the **Tasks** pane after you select an object, alert, or event in the results pane. Health Explorer organizes health information into the following categories:  

- Performance  

- Security  

- Availability  

- Configuration  

All monitors that you define for a selected object display in the appropriate category.  

:::image type="content" source="./media/manage-consoles-overview-healthexplorer/om2016-healthexplorer.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Health Explorer.":::

The icons that indicate state are as follows:  

|Icon|Meaning|  
|--------|-----------|  
|:::image type="content" source="./media/manage-consoles-overview-healthexplorer/om2016-unknownicon.png" alt-text="White button indicates unknown status.":::|Unknown, unmonitored (blank)|
|:::image type="content" source="./media/manage-consoles-overview-healthexplorer/om2016-healthyicon.png" alt-text="Green check icon indicates healthy.":::|Success, health is OK (green)|
|:::image type="content" source="./media/manage-consoles-overview-healthexplorer/om2016-warningicon.png" alt-text="Yellow triangle and exclamation mark is warning.":::|Warning (yellow)|
|:::image type="content" source="./media/manage-consoles-overview-healthexplorer/om2016-criticalicon.png" alt-text="Red button with white X indicates critical state.":::|Critical (red)|
|:::image type="content" source="./media/manage-consoles-overview-healthexplorer/om2016-maintenancemodeicon.png" alt-text="Wrench icon indicates maintenance mode.":::|Maintenance mode (gray)|
|:::image type="content" source="./media/manage-consoles-overview-healthexplorer/om2016-healthygrayicon.png" alt-text="Grayed-out healthy icon.":::|Out of contact (gray)|

By default, when the Health Explorer window first opens, it expands all the monitors that are in a failed or red state. If a monitor contains other monitors, as in the case of a roll-up monitor, Health Explorer shows all monitors in a hierarchical layout so that monitoring data for all dependent services and applications is displayed. If you want to view more details on any dependent monitor, right-click that monitor and then select **Monitor Properties** to open another Health Explorer window.  

When the Health Explorer window is open, you can review a history of diagnostic tests that run automatically and the output from those tasks. You can also run additional diagnostic tasks. Any task that's formatted as a hyperlink can run directly from the **Knowledge** tab.  

The Health Explorer window refreshes automatically every 30 seconds. Press the F5 function key for an immediate refresh.  

For more information on using Health Explorer, see [Using Health Explorer to Investigate Problems](manage-health-using-healthexplorer.md).  

## Next steps

- In the Operations console, you can view monitoring data, manage monitoring configuration, and create your own custom views and dashboards that are personalized for your experience. You can also perform management group administration by [Using the Operations Manager Operations console](manage-consoles-overview.md).  
