---
ms.assetid: bc60e137-7ca2-45db-a30b-26dd83fe8bfb
title: View Active Alerts and Details
description: This article describes how to review the active alerts reported by monitored objects and their details to understand the impact of your affected IT services.
author: Jeronika-MS
ms.author: v-gajeronika
ms.reviewer: v-gajeronika
ms.date: 02/04/2026
ms.service: system-center
ms.subservice: operations-manager
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.custom:
  - UpdateFrequency2
  - engagement-fy23
  - sfi-image-nochange
---

# View active alerts and details

In the Operations Manager console, an alerts view shows alerts that match specific criteria and relate to an object or group of objects. From this view, you can review alerts that rules and monitors generate and that are still active. An operator didn't close these alerts automatically or manually.  

## View active alerts

To view active alerts, open the Operations console and select **Monitoring**. The Monitoring Overview displays a summary of health states and alerts:  

:::image type="content" source="./media/manage-alert-view-alerts-details/om2016-monitoring-overview.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Monitoring overview summarizing alert status.":::

To view the actual alerts, select **Active Alerts** in the navigation pane.  

> [!TIP]
> If you're using the web console, you can filter the view of alerts by severity:  

:::image type="content" source="./media/manage-alert-view-alerts-details/om2016-web-console-alertview-filter.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Filter alerts by severity.":::

::: moniker range=">=sc-om-2016 <=sc-om-2019"

The list of alerts in the Results pane includes the severity, source, maintenance mode status, name, resolution state, and when the alert was created:  

:::image type="content" source="./media/manage-alert-view-alerts-details/om2016-view-active-alerts.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Active Alerts.":::

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range=">=sc-om-2022"

The list of alerts in the Results pane includes the severity, source, maintenance mode status, name, resolution state, alert source, and when the alert was created.

You can view the source of the alert if you select the view source option while creating the alert.

You can also sort and group the alerts by Monitor or Rule.

::: moniker-end

The following folders in the Monitoring workspace include a standard Active Alerts view scoped to the objects for that folder.  

- Data Warehouse  

- Network Monitoring  

- Operations Manager  

- Operations Manager\Agent Details  

- Operations Manager\APM Agent Details  

- Management Server  

- Notification  

- UNIX/Linux Servers  

- Web Application Availability Monitoring  

Management packs that you import typically include a standard Active Alerts view in its folder or within a dashboard.

## View alert details

Alerts in System Center - Operations Manager include information to help you investigate and resolve the issues affecting your IT services that caused the alerts.    

To view the details for an alert, in the **Monitoring** workspace, select **Active Alerts**, and select an alert in the results pane.<br> :::image type="content" source="./media/manage-alert-view-alerts-details/om2016-view-alert-details.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Details for a selected alert.":::  


### Tips

- Locate and investigate monitors in the **Warning** and **Error** states in the Health Explorer of the computer that was the source of the alert. To open Health Explorer, right-click the alert, point to **Open**, and select **Health Explorer**. If there are unhealthy monitors, they might correlate with the alert you're researching. Check the **Context** pane of the **State Change Events** tab for possible additional clues to the root cause.  

- Read all text in the alert properties. Right-click the alert, and select **Properties**. In particular, carefully review the **Alert Description** field on the **General** tab and the **Description** field on the **Alert Context** tab.  

- Right-click the alert, and open the **Event** view. Sort the events by the **Level** column, and then locate the events with the **Error** and **Warning** event levels. Events might correlate with the alert you're investigating and provide insight to its resolution.

::: moniker range=">=sc-om-2022"

## View source FQDN for alerts  

You can view source (FQDN) for the alerts when you try to tune a management pack.

:::image type="content" source="./media/manage-alert-view-alerts-details/source-of-alerts.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing View source for the alerts.":::

::: moniker-end

## Next steps

- Before changing the number of missed heartbeats, review [How Heartbeats Work in Operations Manager](manage-agent-heartbeat-overview.md).  

- To understand how the system generates alerts for monitored objects in your management group, see [How an Alert is Produced](manage-alert-generation-overview.md).

- To understand the behavior of alerts generated by monitors and how to approach managing alerts from them, review [How to Close an Alert Generated by a Monitor](manage-alert-created-by-monitor.md).  

- After investigating and resolving the detected issue, review [How to Reset Health](manage-health-reset-health.md) to manually reset health if the monitor isn't configured to auto-resolve or you don't want to wait for the monitor to detect health state.  
