---
title: Reset Health
description: This article describes how to reset health for a monitor after correcting the issue identified.
author: Jeronika-MS
ms.author: v-gajeronika
ms.date: 04/22/2025
ms.custom: UpdateFrequency2
ms.service: system-center
ms.subservice: operations-manager
ms.topic: how-to
ms.update-cycle: 1095-days
ms.assetid: 87da70aa-607a-47ec-bab5-39345ea53258
---

# Reset health



Some monitors can set state to critical (red), warning (yellow), and healthy (green). Other monitors are only able to change state to critical or warning and can't detect that state has returned to healthy. In that situation, the monitor must be reset manually. Administrators or authors can check whether a monitor is type **Manual Reset** in the **Authoring** workspace.  

This article describes how to reset health for a monitor after correcting the issue identified.

::: moniker range="<sc-om-2019"

> [!NOTE]  
> Only reset health for a monitor when you're sure that all the issues have been resolved.  

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range=">=sc-om-2022"

> [!NOTE]  
> Only reset health for a monitor when you're sure that all the issues have been resolved.  
> You can view change tracking report on health reset actions on the monitors as a consolidated view under *Reports*. [Learn more](management-pack-change-tracking.md#change-tracking-for-monitor-health-reset).

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="sc-om-2019"

> [!NOTE]  
> - Only reset health for a monitor when you're sure that all the issues have been resolved.  
> - With Operations Manager 2019 UR3, you can view change tracking report on health reset actions on the monitors as a consolidated view under **Reports**. [Learn more](management-pack-change-tracking.md#change-tracking-for-monitor-health-reset).

::: moniker-end

## Reset the health for a monitor

To reset the health for a monitor, follow these steps:

1. In the **Monitoring** workspace of the Operations console, right-click an alert, point to **Open**, and select **Health Explorer**.  

2. In **Health Explorer**, select a monitor, and on the toolbar, select **Reset Health**.  

    > [!NOTE]  
    > You may also notice **Recalculate Health** on the toolbar. This function reexamines the health state of a monitor or monitors; however, it only works with monitors that implement **On Demand Detection**. Most monitors don't implement **On Demand Detection**.  

    The following message displays: **Resetting the health of a monitor may take several minutes and will not be reflected in the Health Explorer immediately. The health state of some monitors cannot be reset and will not be updated as a result of this request. Do you wish to continue?**  

3. If you're sure that you want to reset the monitor, select **Yes**.  

4. Return to the Monitoring workspace, right-click the alert, point to **Set Resolution State**, and select **Closed**.  

## Next steps

- To help investigate health issues detected with monitors, review [Use Health Explorer to Investigate Problems](manage-health-using-healthexplorer.md).  

- To understand the behavior of alerts generated by monitors and how to approach managing alerts from them, review [Close an Alert Generated by a Monitor](manage-alert-created-by-monitor.md).  
