---
title: Operations Guide for System Center Operations Manager
description: This article provides an overview of the System Center Operations Manager Operations Guide.
author: jyothisuri
ms.author: jsuri
ms.date: 11/01/2024
ms.custom: engagement-fy24
ms.service: system-center
ms.subservice: operations-manager
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.assetid: c2b63b0a-4c6e-40b3-a75e-2ca514df3bc4
---

# Operations Guide for System Center Operations Manager



Operations Manager, a component of System Center, enables you to monitor services, devices, and operations for many computers in a single console. Operators can gain rapid insight into the state of the IT environment and the IT services running across different systems and workloads by receiving alerts and using numerous views providing insight into health, security, performance, or configuration issues affecting the health of the service.  

The Operations Guide is a comprehensive resource that can be used to understand and use Operations Manager. The Operations Guide covers administrative, monitoring, reporting, and operating tasks typically performed by an administrator or operator. It follows the Operations Manager Deployment Guide in order of use during an Operations Manager implementation project, but doesn't assume that the administrator or operator participated in the installation of the Operations Manager infrastructure.  

**Before you read the Operations Guide:**  

If you're new to Operations Manager, you should read [Key Concepts](key-concepts.md) to understand what a management group is and how Operations Manager works.  

Read [What's New in Operations Manager](./whats-new-in-om.md) to review the differences between Operations Manager 2016 and later versions.

## In the Operations Guide  

-   [Quick Reference to Operations Manager Tasks](manage-quick-reference.md)  

    This section lists the common tasks, tells you where to start each task, and includes links to relevant information.  

-   [Managing discovery and agents](manage-deploy-windows-agent-console.md)

    This section provides guidance for managing discovery and agent installation on a Windows, UNIX, Linux, and Nano Server operating systems from the Operations console or manually from the command line.  

-   [Using management packs](manage-overview-management-pack.md)

    This section explains the management packs and monitoring that are in place when a management group is first created. It also explains how to approach tuning workflows in management packs and assess which management packs have updates available.  

-   [Using the Operations Manager consoles](manage-consoles-comparison.md)

    This section explains the difference between the Operations and Web consoles and how to use them to gain insight into the operational telemetry collected by the different systems and components in your enterprise.

-   [Security in Operations Manager](manage-config-authentication-reporting-server.md)  

    This section explains the accounts that Operations Manager uses for various actions, the user roles that are available for scoping the views and tasks available in the Operations console, and the Run As accounts and profiles that are used by management packs to run workflows.  

-   [Using Reports](manage-reports-installed-during-setup.md)

    This section covers the reports provided in Operations Manager, how to create custom reports, run, save, and export reports, and schedule specific reports for distribution for operations, service owners, or engineering to review.       

-   [Subscribe to alert notifications](manage-notifications-alert-notifications.md)

    This section describes how to setup and manage alert notifications.  

-   [Using views and dashboards](manage-console-view-types.md)

    This section provides guidance on how to view the operational data collected from the environment and gain insight into the performance of your service, its health state, or the issues detected through different visualizations available in the Operations and Web consoles.  

-   [Manage alerts](manage-alert-generation-overview.md)

    This section explains how alerts are generated and how to manage configuring, tuning, and viewing alerts generated by monitored objects in order to effectively prioritize, escalate, and remediate issues detected.  

-   [Maintaining Operations Manager infrastructure](manage-monitor-health-mg.md)

    This section explains how to manage grooming configuration for the databases, moving the database, configuring communication with SQL Server, understand how to monitor the health of your management group, and other maintenance tasks to help manage the health and performance of the roles supporting your management group.   

Other sections in this guide include guidance and recommendations for configuring monitoring of network devices, web-based applications, integration with SharePoint Server or create custom Visio dashboards to visualize monitoring data, and more to help you make the most effective use of Operations Manager in support of your IT operations.
