---
title: What's New in Operations Manager
ms.custom: na
ms.prod: system-center-threshold
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - operations-manager
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: get-started-article
ms.assetid: 5b6096d3-55f0-4bcb-b501-42664e947cb3
---
# What's New in Operations Manager

The content in this section describes what's new and changed in System Center 2016 - Operations Manager. 

## Send E-mail Notifications Using Office 365

Operations Manager now supports using an Office 365 account to send e-mail notifications from Office 365 hosted e-mail.  

## Non-Silverlight Web Console

We have removed the dependency on Microsoft Silverlight and now deliver an HTML5-based Web console to improve performance, scalability, and compatibility with other popular web browsers. To maintain your investment in custom dashboards built with the widgets, the Operations Manager 2012 R2 Web console will need to co-exist in your management group so that you may continue using those dashboards.       

## Management Pack Updates and Recommendations

We have added a new capability to Operations Manager to assess the management packs.  Operations Manager includes a new feature called Updates and Recommendations, to help you proactively identify new technologies or components (i.e. workloads) deployed in your IT infrastructure that were not monitored by Operations Manager or are not monitored using the latest version of a management pack. For more information about Updates and Recommendations see  [Management Pack Assessment](../Manage/Management-Pack-Assessment.md).

## Alert Data Management 

With the release of System Center 2016 – Operations Manager, you get better visibility of the alerts being generated in your management group which helps you reduce alerts that you don't consider actionable or relevant.   

This feature provides the following benefits:
 
- Identify the number of alerts each management pack has generated.

- Identify the number of alerts generated by a monitor/rule with in each management pack.

- Identify different source/s (along with alert count) which have generated an alert for a particular type of alert.

- Filter the data for the desired duration so that you can understand what was happening during a particular period of time.

- This information enables you to make informed decisions on tuning the thresholds or disabling the alerts which you consider noisy.

This feature is available for members of the Operations Manager Administrators role from the Tune Management Packs screen in the Operations console.  

## Extensible Network Monitoring

In System Center 2016 - Operations Manager, we include a tool which will allow you to create a custom management pack to monitor generic network devices (non-certified as of Operations Manager 2012 R2) and include resource utilization metrics, such as processor and memory. Or you can create extended monitoring workflows for an existing network device already monitored by your management group. This tool enables customers to generate a management pack for their network devices to get extended network monitoring. In addition to the current extended monitoring support for Network devices (Processor and Memory monitoring), this tool enables customers to add monitoring of additional device components such as fan, temperature sensor, voltage sensor and power supply.  

## Monitoring Nano Server and Workloads

In the System Center 2016 – Operations Manager release, we have included support to monitor Nano Server:

-  Discover a Nano Server and push Nano-compatible agent to the server from from the console

-  Monitor Internet Information Services (IIS) and Domain Name System (DNS) roles

-  Supports ACS security audit event collection

-  Support Active Directory Integration for managing agent assignment

-  Deploy the Nano-compatible agent manually using a PowerShell script included in this release

-  Manage updating the Nano-compatible agent directly from the console as you do today with the Windows agent, or manually on Nano Server using a PowerShell script included in this release 
    
For specific instructions on how to configure System Center 2016 - Operations Manager to monitor Nano Server, see [Monitoring Nano Server](../Manage/Monitoring-Nano-Server.md).

## Console User Interface Performance Improvements

With System Center 2016 – Operations Manager, we have made performance improvements to alert views in the Operations console to increase responsiveness.

## Scalability Improvement with Unix/Linux Agents Monitoring

Operations Manager includes improved scalability in how many Unix/Linux agents that can be monitored per Management server.  You can now monitor up to 2X the number of Unix/Linux servers per Management server, against the previously supported scale. 
 
Operations Manager now uses by default, the new Async Windows Management Infrastructure (MI) APIs instead of WSMAN Sync APIs. To take advantage of this scalability improvement, you will need to create a new registry key "UseMIAPI" on Management servers monitoring Linux/Unix systems by performing the following steps:

1. Open the **Registry Editor** from an elevated **Command Prompt**.

2. Create registry key **UseMIAPI** under **HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Microsoft Operations Manager\3.0\Setup**.

If you need to restore the original configuration of WSMAN Sync APIs, you can delete the UseMAPI registry key. 

## Schedule Maintenance from Agent-Managed System

Schedule Maintenance mode in System Center 2016 - Operations Manager allows you to suspend monitoring of an object during regular software or hardware maintenance activities, such as software updates or hardware replacements. 

Entities can be put to maintenance in older versions of Operations Manager, but they cannot be put into maintenance mode at a future time. The newly created Maintenance Mode Scheduling wizard gives the ability to choose different types of entities to put into maintenance and to schedule maintenance at a future time. 

The “Maintenance Schedules” feature offers the following advantages over the “Maintenance Mode” Task.

-   Ability to schedule maintenance mode at a future time and through a variety of scheduling options.

-   Ability to choose different classes of entities and groups to put to maintenance as a part of a single schedule.

-   Ability to view all the maintenance mode schedules from a single screen.

-   Ability to schedule multiple jobs for the same monitored entity.

To support the scenario of initiating maintenance mode directly from the agent-managed computer, Operations Manager now supports allowing a server administrator to set the machine in maintenance mode directly from the computer itself, without needing to perform this from the Operations console.  This can be performed with the new PowerShell cmdlet **Start-SCOMAgentMainteannceMode**.  

## Extend Operations Manager with Operations Management Suite

With Microsoft Operations Management Suite you can extend your management capabilities by connecting your Operations Management infrastructure to management and analysis services provided through your Azure account. The main scenarios for connecting System Center 2016 - Operations Manager to Microsoft Operations Management Suite include:

-   Configuration Assessment

-   Alert Management

-   Capacity Planning

For more information please review the Microsoft Operations Management Suite [Operations Management Suite](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/mt484091.aspx) documentation.

## Partner Program in Administration Pane

Customers can view certified System Center Operations Manager partner solutions directly from the console. Customers can obtain a view of the partner solutions and visit the partner websites to download and install the solutions.  

