---
ms.assetid: 05fe26c2-25a5-44a0-8a34-20a387d317a3
title: VMM 1801 release notes
description: This article details release notes for System Center Virtual Machine Manager 1801.
author:  JYOTHIRMAISURI
ms.author: v-jysur
manager:  riyazp
ms.date:  01/24/2018
ms.topic:  article
ms.prod:  system-center-2016
ms.technology:  virtual-machine-manager
monikerRange: 'sc-vmm-1711'
---

# VMM 1801 release notes

This article summarizes the release notes for System Center Virtual Machine Manager 1801 (VMM 1801).

## VM template created from Windows Server 1709 VM resets the Operating System incorrectly to Windows Server 2012 R2

**Description**: A VM template, created from Windows Server 1709 VM that is correctly marked as “Windows Server Datacenter version 1709” in VMM, will have operating system labeled incorrectly to “Windows Server 2012 R2 Standard“.

**Workaround**: Change the OS to “Windows Server Datacenter version 1709” in the template and save.


## VM migration to an unguarded Windows Server 1709 host might fail

**Description**:  Migration to a Windows Server 1709 host that has attestation status set to Local might fail. This issue is because of the numerous certificates generated by the host on periodic call to **Get-HGSClientConfiguration** by VMM upon refresh of Host. The operation to migrate the VM to this host times out as the platform tries to validate each and every certificate in the local store.

**Workaround**: Check the Personal Certificate store on the host and see if there are huge number of "Microsoft Local Attestation Service" certificates. If so, delete the certificates from local store at regular intervals.

## Latest accessibility fixes in Console are not available

 **Description**: Latest accessibility fixes in Console might not be available when you use .NET 4.7 while installing the VMM Console.

 **Workaround**: We recommend using .NET 4.7.1 while installing the VMM Console. For detailed information on .NET 4.7.1 migration, see [the article on .NET migration
  ](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/migration-guide/retargeting/4.7-4.7.1).

## Backend adapter connectivity for SLB MUX doesn't work as expected

**Description**: Backend adapter connectivity of SLB MUX might not work as expected after VM migration.

**Workaround**: Users scale in/scale out in the SLB MUX VM as a workaround.

## Connectivity issues for SLB addresses.

**Description**: For frontend and backend IP addresses assigned to Software Load Balancer MUX VMs, you might experience connectivity issues if **Register this connection's address in DNS** is selected.

**Workaround**: Clear the setting to avoid issues with these IP addresses.
