---
title: 360 .NET Application Monitoring Dashboards in System Center 2012 SP1
ms.custom: na
ms.prod: system-center-2012
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - operations-manager
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 8dfdfdc9-3818-4e7b-81ad-edeb480e7d51
---
# 360 .NET Application Monitoring Dashboards in System Center 2012 SP1
[!INCLUDE[sc2012sp1notetopic]./Token/sc2012sp1notetopic_md.md)]

[!INCLUDE[om12long]./Token/om12long_md.md)] can show you different perspectives of application health in one place—360 .NET Application Monitoring Dashboards. The 360 .NET Application Monitoring Dashboards display information from Global Service Monitor, .NET Application Performance Monitoring, and Web Application Availability Monitoring to provide a summary of health and key metrics for 3\-tier applications in a single view. The 360 .NET Application Monitoring Dashboards show where an application is unhealthy and provide a launch point for Application Summary Dashboards that highlight component\-level issues, which are helpful when troubleshooting.

The 360 .NET Application Monitoring Dashboards display data from powerful monitoring tools. .NET Application Performance Monitoring looks deep into the application to get details that can help you pinpoint solutions from server\- and client\-side perspectives. Web Application Availability monitoring in [!INCLUDE[om12short]./Token/om12short_md.md)] monitors internal synthetic transactions. Global Service Monitor monitors the availability of applications from an outside location, measuring availability from where the user is.

## The Applications Dashboard
The Applications Dashboard gives you a holistic view of all applications modeled through a Distributed Application \(DA\) and help answer these questions:

-   Are my applications healthy? This is provided by the state view that shows the DA health as measured by availability from Global Service Monitor.

-   Do the high\-level metrics indicate a problem? Four metric scores provide this information, showing Average response time \(Global Service Monitor\), Availability \(Global Service Monitor\), Performance Exceptions \(.NET Application Performance Monitoring\), and Reliability \(exception events from .NET Application Performance Monitoring.\)

-   Is the application meeting SLAs? Once you select a DA, the lower part of the dashboard retrieves all SLAs defined for that DA, and show a state for that SLA.

![/Image/360Dash_AppDash.gif)

The Applications Dashboard highlights the following:

|Key application metric or action|Type of monitoring used|
|------------------------------------|---------------------------|
|Availability|Web Application Availability Monitoring and Global Service Monitor|
|Reliability|.NET Application Performance Monitoring|
|Performance|.NET Application Performance Monitoring and Global Service Monitor|

## The Application Summary Dashboard
The Application Summary Dashboard shows components and instances of applications, performance data, and active alerts. The data are not aggregated, so the Application Summary Dashboard is a useful tool for troubleshooting.

When you select an application in the Applications Dashboard, **Application Summary Dashboard** appears in the right rail. To open it, click **Application Summary Dashboard**.

![/Image/360Dash_AppSummaryDash.gif)

The Applications Summary Dashboard highlights the following:

|Key application metric or action|Type of monitoring used|
|------------------------------------|---------------------------|
|Distributed Application|The distributed application that you selected on the Applications Dashboard|
|Components|Components discovered by .NET Application Performance Monitoring and Global Service Monitor that are part of the selected distributed application. When you select a component, the related data displays in the Average Response Time \(s\) for Component and Monitored Requests per Second for Component charts. **Note:** Not all components have the associated data in these two charts—only the components discovered by .NET Application Performance Monitoring.|
|Instances|The instances of each component. For example, you might have several instances of a website running on several computers.|
|Active Alerts|Active alerts for the selected distributed application|
|Average Response Time \(s\) for External Tests|Average response time in seconds for the monitoring tests that you have configured in Global Service Monitor for the selected distributed application|
|Average Response Time \(s\) for Component|Average response time in seconds for the selected component as configured by .NET Application Performance Monitoring|
|Monitored Requests per Second for Component|Monitored requests per second for the selected component as configured by .NET Application Performance Monitoring|

## See Also
[Before You Begin Using 360 .NET Application Monitoring Dashboards in System Center 2012 SP1](./Before-You-Begin-Using-360-.NET-Application-Monitoring-Dashboards-in-System-Center-2012-SP1.md)
[How to Configure 360 .NET Application Monitoring Dashboards in System Center 2012 SP1](./How-to-Configure-360-.NET-Application-Monitoring-Dashboards-in-System-Center-2012-SP1.md)
[How to Use the 360 .NET Application Monitoring Dashboards in System Center 2012 SP1](./How-to-Use-the-360-.NET-Application-Monitoring-Dashboards-in-System-Center-2012-SP1.md)



