---
ms.assetid: 58d10f86-5e93-4761-8b95-6caa532bbac3
title: Managing Alerts
description: This article highlights the section titles contained within this section of the Operations Manager 2016 documentation.
author: mgoedtel
ms.author: magoedte
manager: cfreemanwa
ms.date: 12/06/2016
ms.custom: na
ms.prod: system-center-threshold
ms.technology: operations-manager
ms.topic: article
---

# Managing alerts

>Applies To: System Center 2016 - Operations Manager

An alert is an indication of a significant event requiring attention. Rules and monitors can generate alerts. You can view alerts in the **Monitoring** workspace of the Operations console or web console.  
  
## Managing alerts topics  
  
-  To understand how Operations Manager monitors the communication channel between an agent and it's primary management server to ensure it is responsive and available, see [How Heartbeats Work in Operations Manager](How-Heartbeats-Work.md).  

-  To learn how to investigate a Health Service Heartbeat Failure alert, see [Resolving Heartbeat Alerts](../../scom/manage-agent-resolve-heartbeat.md)

-  To get better visibility with the alerts being generated in your environment and determine which are candidates for additional configuration to reduce alert noise and improve alert accuracy, see [Data-driven Alert Management](data-driven-alert-management.md) from the Operations console. 
  
-  To understand how alerts are generated for monitored objects in your management group, see [How an Alert is Produced](../../scom/manage-alert-generation-overview.md).
 
-  Review [Viewing Active Alerts and Details](../../scom/manage-alert-view-alerts-details.md) to understand how it can help you review alerts that have been generated by rules and monitors which are still active.  
  
-  Review [Impact of closing an alert](impact-of-closing-an-alert.md) to understand how the behavior is different between closing an alert from a monitor and an alert rule in the Operations Manager console.

-  [Close an Alert Generated by a Monitor](how-to-close-an-alert-generated-by-a-monitor.md) helps you understand how to work with alerts from monitors and avoid missing alerts if the problem still exists.  

-  Review [How to Reset Health](how-to-reset-health.md) to consider the situations when you would manually reset the health state of a monitor.

-  [Using Health Explorer to Investigate Problems](using-health-explorer-to-investigate-problems.md) helps identify  which monitor is unhealthy and how it can help support identifying the issue.  

-  Review [How to Set Alert Resolution States](how-to-set-alert-resolution-states.md) to learn how to set custom alert resolution states to align with your incident management process for escalation of issues.  

-  To automatically resolve active alerts after a specific number of days, see [How to Configure Automatic Alert Resolution](how-to-configure-automatic-alert-resolution.md).  