---
ms.assetid: 1b8afb6f-9caf-455a-ad51-546a17fd47a4
title: include file
description: This include file describes the new features in Operations Manager 2019, 2019 UR1, 2019 UR2, 2019 UR3 and 2019 UR4.
author: Jeronika-MS
ms.author: v-gajeronika
ms.date: 07/26/2023
ms.service: system-center
monikerRange: 'sc-om-2019'
ms.subservice: operations-manager
ms.topic: include
---

## New features in Operations Manager 2019

The following sections introduce new and updated features in System Center Operations Manager 2019 - Operations Manager.

### Service logon is enabled by default in Operations Manager 2019

Operations Manager 2019 supports hardening of service accounts and doesn't require interactive and remote interactive logon rights for service accounts.

Operations Manager 2019 uses *Service Log on* as the logon type, by default. For more information, see [Enable service logon](../scom/enable-service-logon.md).

### Improved experience for HTML5 dashboard

The redesigned web console is now a fully functional HTML-based console. It no longer has a dependency on Silverlight. The new dashboards were redesigned with:

* A modern user interface.
* Simplified widget and dashboard authoring.
* Accessibility from multiple browsers.
* Enhanced troubleshooting experience with drill-down pages.
* Extensibility with a custom widget by using a new [REST API](/rest/operationsmanager).
* Capability to export and share dashboards.
* A new **All** option to select all objects while creating or editing an alerts widget.

Network authentication is enabled with the enhanced web console. For more information, see [Overview of HTML5 web console and dashboards](../scom/manage-overview-html5-web-console.md).

### Enhanced experience for alerts raised by monitors

The alert closure experience for the alerts generated by a monitor is more meaningful and impactful to your service availability goals.

When you view an alert's detail in the alerts view, you can see whether the alert was generated by a rule or a monitor. If the alert was generated by a monitor, allow the monitor to auto-resolve the alert when the health state returns to healthy.

In earlier versions of Operations Manager, if you close the alert while the object is in a warning, critical, or unhealthy state, the problem remains unresolved. No further alerts are generated unless the health state for the monitor is also reset, which again is a manual task.

This behavior often led to closure of critical alerts without resolving the underlying problem. It's now fixed with Operations Manager 2019. An alert generated by a monitor can't be closed unless the health state of the corresponding monitor is healthy.

### Notifications and subscriptions enhancement

The existing alert notifications and subscription experience in Operations Manager now deliver more value to users. The enhancements can be broadly categorized into two areas:

- **Intuitive Email notifications**: Operations Manager 2019 supports email notifications in HTML format. For more information, see [Create an email notification in HTML format](../scom/manage-notifications-create-email-channel.md#create-an-email-notification-in-html-format).
- **Enhanced Criteria Builder**: You can now use the regular expressions to build a complex yet useful subscription criteria. For more information, see [Create notification subscriptions](../scom/manage-notifications-create-subscriptions.md).

### Management server failover support for Linux and UNIX monitoring

Failover of the management server in a resource pool that supports monitoring of a workload ensures high availability and fault tolerance. In the earlier versions of Operations Manager, when a primary management server fails and another management server takes over the role of the primary management server in the pool, the existing monitor-based alerts in Operations Manager are closed. New alerts are created for the same condition. In deployments where Operations Manager is integrated with an incident management system, these new alerts lead to the creation of new tickets or incidents.

The problem of alerts and tickets that are created during failover or load balancing of management servers is addressed in Operations Manager 2019. Now, when the primary management server fails over, the alerts don't get re-created. Only the repeat count of the existing alerts is incremented.

### Linux agent installation changes

With Operations Manager 2019, there are changes in the Linux agent package bundling. This bundle now consists of **scx** and **omi** shell bundles only. Post agent installation, a new user called *omi* is created on the agent computer. However, you can choose to create user **omi** in advance according to the specifics of your user policies.

We recommend that user **omi** be a system user with no login shell, password, and home directory.

To use the log file monitoring feature, you must install the Linux log file monitoring management pack that's provided with Operations Manager 2019. This change ensures that the *omsagent* user is created only when you use the log file monitoring feature. For more information, see [Install agent on UNIX and Linux computers](../scom/manage-install-crossplat-agent-cmdline.md) and [Linux log file monitoring](../scom/manage-linux-logfiles.md).

### Improvement in agent-initiated maintenance mode

Agent-initiated maintenance mode is a crucial feature to suspend monitoring when the monitored object is taken offline for maintenance. With Operations Manager 2019, maintenance mode is triggered based on an event. In earlier releases, maintenance mode was triggered based on the registry. With the registry-based approach, there was a probability that a management server couldn't read the agent's registry before the agent computer was shut down. In such cases, false alerts were generated.

With an agent-initiated maintenance mode based on an event, a management server immediately reads the maintenance mode event from the agent computer. This quick response can occur because events are almost real time. As a result, the server never misses processing the maintenance request.

>[!NOTE]
>You can turn off your computer right after you run this command. An event notifies the management server to suspend monitoring on this computer.

### Ability to enable scheduled maintenance mode with SQL Server Always On

Scheduled maintenance mode has been a feature of Operations Manager since the 2016 release. In earlier releases, if Operations Manager deployments had SQL Server Always On enabled for high availability, the schedules were inaccessible when the SQL Server failover occurred in the availability group.

Operations Manager 2019 introduces a solution for this problem to ensure the scheduled maintenance mode capability works as expected. This is the case even when a SQL Server failover occurs.

### Microsoft Monitoring Agent operating system

The following versions of the Windows operating system are supported for the Microsoft Monitoring Agent connecting to Operations Manager:

- **Windows Server 2019**: Standard, Standard (Desktop Experience), Datacenter, Datacenter (Desktop Experience), Server Core.
- **Windows Server 2016**: Standard, Standard (Desktop Experience), Datacenter, Datacenter (Desktop Experience), Server Core.
- **Windows Server 2012 R2**: Standard, Standard (Desktop Experience), Datacenter, Datacenter (Desktop Experience), Server Core.
- **Windows Server 2012**: Standard, Datacenter, Server Core
- **Windows 10**: Enterprise, Pro.

  > [!NOTE]
  > Operations Manager 2019 supports only the x64 agent.

- **File system**: %SYSTEMDRIVE% must be formatted with the NTFS file system.
- **Windows PowerShell version**: Windows PowerShell version 2.0 or Windows PowerShell version 3.0.
- **Microsoft .NET Framework**: Version 3.5 or later.

### New Linux operating systems support

The following new platforms are supported for monitoring in Operations Manager 2019. For more information, see [Supported UNIX and Linux operating system versions](../scom/plan-supported-crossplat-os.md).

- SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (SLES) 15
- openSUSE Leap 15
- Ubuntu 18
- Debian 9
- SUSE 12 PPC

### HTML 5 web console client browsers

For the HTML5 web console, the following client web browsers are supported:

* Internet Explorer version 11
* Microsoft Edge version 40 and later
* Google Chrome version 67 and later

For additional requirements, see Operations Manager 2019 [system requirements](../scom/system-requirements.md).

### SQL Server 2017 support

Operations Manager 2019 supports a new installation of SQL Server 2017.

The following versions of SQL Server Enterprise & Standard Edition are supported for a new or upgraded installation of System Center 2019 Operations Manager to host Reporting Server, Operational, Data Warehouse, and ACS databases:

- SQL Server 2017 and service packs as detailed on [this website](https://support.microsoft.com/lifecycle/search?alpha=SQL%20server%202017%20)
- SQL Server 2016 and service packs as detailed on [this website](https://support.microsoft.com/lifecycle/search?alpha=SQL%20server%202016%20)

For information about SQL Server design considerations, see [related documentation](../scom/plan-sqlserver-design.md?view=sc-om-2019&preserve-view=true).

### Support for SQL Server 2019 CU8 and later

Operations Manager supports SQL Server 2019 with Cumulative Update 8 (CU8) or later, as detailed [here](/archive/blogs/sqlreleaseservices/announcing-the-modern-servicing-model-for-sql-server).


>[!NOTE]
> - Operations Manager 2019 supports SQL 2019 with CU8 or later; however, it does not support SQL 2019 RTM.
> - Operations Manager 2019 supports ODBC 17.3 or later, and MSOLEDBSQL 18.2 or later.


### In-place upgrade

 Operations Manager 2019 supports an in-place upgrade from the following versions:

*  System Center 2016 Operations Manager
*  System Center 1801 Operations Manager
*  System Center 1807 Operations Manager

### URL monitoring enhancements for server certificate errors

The existing URL monitoring capability is enhanced. With this improvement, Operations Manager won't ignore server certificate errors by default. Examples of certificate errors include server certificate CN, expiry date, untrusted CA, and wrong usage. If you want to monitor websites that don't have a valid SSL certificate, select the **Ignore Server Certificate Errors** checkbox in your web application properties. For more information, see [Web application properties](../scom/web-application-properties.md).

### Updates and Recommendations feature for Linux

The Updates and Recommendations feature is now extended for Linux workloads. Previously, it was available only for Windows workloads. This feature helps you proactively identify workloads deployed on your Linux computers that weren't monitored by Operations Manager. You can also identify workloads that aren't monitored by using the latest version of a management pack. For more information, see [Management pack assessment](../scom/manage-mp-mpassessment.md).

If there are management packs in the catalog that are designed to monitor those workloads, they appear on the **Updates and Recommendations** page. You'll also find updates that are available for the management packs installed in your management group.

A new capability, **Machine Details**, allows administrators to view the agent computer's name and the operating system installed on it.

### Support for the latest application servers

Operations Manager 2019 supports the latest application servers. For more information, see [Supported application servers](../scom/manage-mp-mpassessment.md#supported-application-servers).

### Support for client-side monitoring on multiple browsers

With Operations Manager 2019, client-side monitoring supports Internet Explorer and the following web browsers:

-	Microsoft Edge (version 42 or higher)
-	Google Chrome (version 68 or higher)

### Enhanced support for application performance monitoring

Application performance monitoring (APM) can now monitor websites that are created with SharePoint 2016.

> [!NOTE]
> The following features or feature updates were introduced in Operations Manager 1807 and are included in Operations Manager 2019.

### Configure the APM component during agent installation or repair

You can now disable the APM component when you:

- Deploy the Operations Manager agent from the **Discovery** wizard in the console.
- Perform a repair of the agent from the Operations console.
- Use the PowerShell cmdlets **Install-SCOMAgent** and **Repair-SCOMAgent**.

For more information, see [Install Windows Agent manually using MOMAgent.msi](../scom/manage-deploy-windows-agent-manually.md).

### Linux log rotation

To prevent the SCX logs from growing and consuming all available free space on the system disk, a log rotation feature is now available for the SCX agent. For more information, see [Troubleshooting monitoring of UNIX and Linux computers](../scom/manage-monitoring-unix-linux.md).

### Operations Manager and Service Manager console coexistence

The Operations and Service Manager consoles and PowerShell modules can be installed on the same system.

### OpenSSL 1.1.0 version support

On Linux platforms, OpenSSL 0.9.8 support is dropped. Support is added for OpenSSL 1.1.0 to support TLS 1.2.

### Autodetection of a pseudo file system and drop enumeration

The UNIX and Linux agents were enhanced to detect a pseudo file system dynamically and ignore enumeration.

> [!NOTE]
> The following features or feature updates were introduced in Operations Manager 1801 and are included in Operations Manager 2019.

### Linux monitoring

You can now use a Linux agent with Fluentd support for log file monitoring on par with Windows Server. This update provides improvements over previous log file monitoring with support for:

- Wildcard characters in log file names and paths.
- New match patterns for customizable log search like simple match, exclusive match, correlated match, repeated correlation, and exclusive correlation.
- Generic Fluentd plug-ins published by the Fluentd community. For more information, see [Linux log file monitoring](../scom/manage-linux-logfiles.md).

### System Center Visual Studio Authoring Extension support for Visual Studio 2017

The [Visual Studio Authoring Extension add-in](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=30169) is now compatible with Visual Studio 2017. Management pack developers can continue using it with the latest version of Visual Studio to create custom management packs. They can use one of the management pack templates provided or edit an existing management pack.

### Enhanced SDK client performance

Performance improvements in the Operations console typically prevent the console from responding while a new management pack is being imported or deleted or a configuration change to a management pack is saved.

### Linux Kerberos support

Operations Manager can now support Kerberos authentication wherever the WS-Management Protocol is used by the management server to communicate with UNIX and Linux computers. This capability provides greater security by no longer needing to enable basic authentication for Windows Remote Management (WinRM).

### Service Map integration

Service Map automatically discovers application components on Windows and Linux systems and maps the communication between services. It automatically builds a common reference map of dependencies across your servers, processes, and third-party services.

Service Map and System Center Operations Manager are now more closely integrated. You can automatically create distributed application diagrams in Operations Manager based on the dynamic dependency maps in Service Map. For more information on how to plan and configure integration, see [Service Map integration with System Center Operations Manager](/azure/operations-management-suite/operations-management-suite-service-map-scom).

### Support for product key registration from the Operations console

In previous versions of Operations Manager, you had to upgrade from the evaluation version to a licensed version by using the PowerShell cmdlet **Set-SCOMLicense** after initial deployment of a new management group. Registration of the product key now can be done during or after setup in the Operations console. The PowerShell cmdlet **Set-SCOMLicense** now supports registering the license key remotely from a management server.

## New features in Operations Manager 2019 UR1

The following sections introduce the new features or feature updates supported in Operations Manager 2019 Update Rollup 1 (UR1).

For problems fixed in UR1 and the installation instructions for UR1, see [the KB article](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4533415/update-rollup-1-for-system-center-operations-manager-2019).

### Multi-language installer for Operation Manager components

The following components now have a single installer each for all supported languages, instead of language-specific installers. The installer automatically selects the language based on the computer's language settings where you're installing.

- Console
- ACS
- Web console
- Reporting

### Simplified management server patching
Operations Manager 2019 UR1 introduces a frictionless way of patching the Operations Manager server.

The improvised user interface guides you through the installation steps, which patch the management server, update the databases, and update the management packs. For more information on how integrated patching is done, see [Simplified management server patching - Operations Manager 2019](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4538900/simplified-scom-2019-management-server-patching).

### Distro-agnostic management pack for Linux

The existing universal management packs are enhanced in Operations Manager 2019 UR1. Any new Linux platform support is made available via these management packs based on the kind of distribution, either RPM or DEB. These management packs are also version and distribution agnostic. For all future Linux platform support, the same management pack is updated instead of releasing a new management pack per Linux distribution.

The existing management packs for Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 7 and SLES 12 continue to work. The universal management packs support discovering and monitoring RHEL 8, SLES 15, and any new platforms that we intend to support in the future.

The existing SLES 15 management pack is no longer on the download center. Use the new universal management pack for discovery and monitoring. Download the updated management packs from [this website](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=58208).

Follow these steps to discover and monitor RHEL 8 and SLES 15.

1. Install the Operations Manager 2019 UR1 Server and Console patch.
1. Import the following management packs from the Microsoft System Center 2019 management pack for UNIX and Linux Preview.msi:

	 - Microsoft.Unix.Library.mp
   - Microsoft.Linux.Library.mp
   - Microsoft.Linux.Universal.Library.mp
   - Microsoft.Linux.Universal.Monitoring.mp
   - Microsoft.Linux.UniversalR.1.mpb (Discover/Monitor RPM distros)
   - Microsoft.Linux.UniversalD.1.mpb (Discover/Monitor Debian distros)

1. Run the **Discovery** wizard in the console.


### Support for Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8

Operations Manager 2019 UR1 supports RHEL 8. Use the universal management pack previously mentioned to discover and monitor RHEL 8.

### Performance and reliability improvement in Linux

With Operations Manager 2019 UR1, to improve reliability, a separate process is introduced to send the heartbeat. Earlier, the performance and heartbeat collection threads used to run under the same process context. Because of this arrangement, any delay in performance data collection affected the system availability.

With this change in Operations Manager 2019 UR1, during heartbeat collection, you can now see an additional *omiagent* process that runs under *omi* user. For more information, see [Performance and reliability improvements in the Linux agent](../scom/manage-security-administer-crossplat-agent.md#performance-and-reliability-improvements-in-the-linux-agent).

### Updates to management packs

Operations Manager 2019 UR1 includes updates to the following management packs:

- [Azure management pack](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=58013)
- [Storage spaces direct management pack](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=100782)

### Support for group Managed Service Accounts

Operations Manager 2019 UR1 supports group Managed Service Accounts. For more information, see [Support for group Managed Service Accounts](../scom/support-group-managed-service-accounts.md).UR

### Scalability improvement with UNIX or Linux agent monitoring

Operations Manager 2019 UR1 includes improved scalability in UNIX or Linux agents that can be monitored per management server. The following changes will take effect to take advantage of this improvement:

-	Use of Async Windows Management Infrastructure APIs is a default functionality from Operations Manager 2019 UR1. The registry key *UseMIAPI* is created if it doesn't exist. The new registry value *Disable* is added to **HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Microsoft Operations Manager\3.0\Setup\UseMIAPI**.
-	As part of Operations Manager 2019 UR1 installation, the value of the registry key **HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Microsoft Operations Manager\3.0\Setup\UseMIAPI\Disable** is set as **0**.
-	To use Sync Windows Management APIs, set the value of the registry key **HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Microsoft Operations Manager\3.0\Setup\UseMIAPI\Disable** as **1**. For any other scenario, the Async Windows Management Infrastructure API is used.


## New features in Operations Manager 2019 UR2

The following sections introduce the new features or feature updates supported in Operations Manager 2019 Update Rollup 2 (UR2).

For the problems fixed in UR2, and the installation instructions for UR2, [see the KB article](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4558752).

### Change tracking for management packs

Change tracking is enabled by default in 2019 UR2 to track and report the changes on the management packs and management pack objects.

Three new reports **Management Pack History**, **Management Pack Objects** and **Overrides tracking** are now available to display the changes. These reports are available under **Reporting** > **Microsoft Generic Report library**.

You can use the filters available in the reports to set the criteria and get the reports per your requirement. [Learn more](../scom/management-pack-change-tracking.md).

### Improvements in scheduled maintenance mode
In earlier releases, if there's a conflict in maintenance mode window for object(s), the newly updated end time overwrites the existing scheduled time. If this latest defined time is longer than previous value, then computer stays in maintenance mode for extended period. However, when the latest defined time is shorter, then the computer comes out of maintenance mode, earlier than expected, generating false alerts.

With 2019 UR2, if there's a conflict in maintenance mode end time, then the object will exit maintenance mode at the furthest end time defined for the object. [Learn more](../scom/manage-maintenance-mode-overview.md#furthest-end-time-during-schedule-overlap).

### Favorite reports in web console

With Operations Manager 2019 UR2, you can run and view favorite reports under **Web Console** > **My Workspace**. This feature is available in Operations Manager 2012 web console, which is now supported in 2019 UR2. [Learn more](../scom/favorite-reports-web-console.md).

### Support for folders in monitoring view of web console
In Operations Manager 2016 and later, you can create a folder and place dashboards/views inside them using operations console. However, this feature isn't available from Web console. With 2019 UR2, using web console, you can create folders and place dashboards inside them. These folders can be saved in unsealed management packs. [Learn more](../scom/support-folders-monitoring-view-web-console.md).

## New features in Operations Manager 2019 UR3

The following sections introduce the new features or feature updates supported in Operations Manager 2019 Update Rollup 3 (UR3).

For the problems fixed in UR3, and the installation instructions for UR3, [see the KB article](https://support.microsoft.com/topic/a7b9aa06-7d72-dc5a-e303-1899fafe9931).

### Updates to change tracking feature

Operations Manager 2019 UR3 includes updates to the change tracking feature for management packs. This feature now supports change tracking for agent and monitor health reset. [Learn more](../scom/management-pack-change-tracking.md#change-tracking-for-agent).

### Additional view options in web console widgets

With Operations Manager 2019 UR3 and later, you can sort the results columns in the Alert widget and State widget, also group the columns. [Learn more](../scom/manage-create-web-dashboard-alerts.md#additional-view-options-in-alert-widget).

### Disabled SSL renegotiation for Linux agent

With Operations Manager 2019 UR3 and later, SSL renegotiations have been disabled. [Learn more](../scom/manage-security-crossplat-config-sslcipher.md#disabled-ssl-renegotiations-in-linux-agent).

### Dynamic changes in log-level settings without agent restart

With Operations Manager 2019 UR3 and later, you can change the log-level settings without restarting the agent. [Learn more](../scom/manage-security-administer-crossplat-agent.md#dynamic-changes-in-log-level-settings-without-agent-restart).

### Resolved issues with orphan alerts

In earlier releases, active alerts aren't getting closed after non-persistent health state in failover scenarios. Overall, health service doesn’t hold the last state of the monitor; alerts aren't closed while resetting the monitor to healthy.

With Operations Manager 2019 UR3 and later, all of the orphan alerts are closed, eventually, depending on the type of monitor. [Learn more](../scom/manage-alert-created-by-monitor.md#closure-of-orphan-alerts).

### Support for RHEL 6, Ubuntu 20, Debian 10, 11 and Oracle 8

Operations Manager 2019 UR3 and later supports RHEL6 via RHEL6 management pack. Also, support for Ubuntu 20.04, Debian 10 and Oracle Linux 8 are added via the Universal MPs. [Learn more](../scom/plan-supported-crossplat-os.md#red-hat-enterprise-linux-server-6--applicable-for-2019-ur3-and-later).

### TLS 1.2 support for Solaris 10 SPARC

Operations Manager 2019 UR3 and later supports TLS 1.2 for Solaris 10 SPARC. [Learn more](../scom/plan-supported-crossplat-os.md#solaris-10-sparc).

### Performance improvements in Operations Manager

 Operations Manager 2019 UR3 provides performance improvement in the following scenarios:

- **Improvements in load time for Windows computer view**

  Windows computer view in Operations Manager console was taking unreasonable time to load.

  With Operations Manager 2019 UR3, to decrease the load time for this view, we optimized the relevant SQL query.

- **Improvement in load time while changing user role privileges**  

  Prior to 2019 UR3, any changes to a user's role privileges (for example, providing or revoking permissions on specific views or dashboards) was taking about 30 minutes.

  With Operations Manager 2019 UR3, the SQL queries that fetch the relevant data and helps change the settings of a user role are optimized. This optimization has led to significant improvements in the load time.

- **Grooming of maintenance mode staging table**

  In earlier releases, Operations Manager Data warehouse grooming (emptying) of maintenance mode staging table wasn't occurring. The table increased every day into millions of rows, which eventually filled up the database that could potentially lead to additional cost to spin up a new database. The increase in utilization of database is correlated with decrease in performance of Operation Manager's console.

  With Operations Manager 2019 UR3, an index is added to the maintenance mode staging table; grooming of the table occurs now.

- **Improvement in SDK services**

  Operations Manager console was taking longer time to load and complete basic tasks.

  With Operations Manager 2019 UR3, we optimized relevant SQL queries and the performance has improved now.

### Discover Azure Migrate from Operations Manager console

Operations Manager 2019 UR3 and later allows you to discover Azure Migrate from console.You can now generate a complete inventory of your on-premises environment without appliance. This can be used in Azure Migrate to assess machines at scale. [Learn more](https://support.microsoft.com/topic/discover-azure-migrate-for-operations-manager-04b33766-f824-4e99-9065-3109411ede63).

## New features in Operations Manager 2019 UR4

The following sections introduce the new features or feature updates supported in Operations Manager 2019 Update Rollup 4 (UR4).

For the problems fixed in UR4, and the installation instructions for UR4, see [the KB article](https://support.microsoft.com/topic/update-rollup-4-for-system-center-operations-manager-2019-07ad0ef3-a330-4373-92f6-2dda3821bee5).

### UI improvements in Operations console

The following are the UI improvements in Operations Console:

- Support for sort option by column, in **Overrides Summary**.

- For Monitors, Rules, Task and Discoveries, **Management Pack** label text is selectable in the workflow **Properties** window.

- Added new fields for **Class Technical Name** in the **State Views**. Added the same in the wizard for creating a new Alert, Event, Performance or State View.

- Added **Target Class Display Name** to help identify the target of a rule while selecting rules during the creation of a new **Performance View**.

- Added 3 new columns **Management Pack**, **Sealed** and **Members** in the **Authoring** pane > **Groups**.

- Added new column for **Management Pack Display Name** in the **Authoring** pane > **Create Group wizard**.

## New features in Operations Manager 2019 UR5

The following sections introduce the new features or feature updates supported in Operations Manager 2019 Update Rollup 5 (UR5).

For the problems fixed in UR5, and the installation instructions for UR5, see the [KB article](https://support.microsoft.com/topic/788c571b-1887-4376-8b2f-c7881e797835).
